So here is the codepen and
put it in a string so
we don't get a syntax error.
So we're going to do is turn this into a
pipeline rather than introducing state and
having an order of events.
We're going to write less than stock.
We'll leave this on the screen so
we could look at it but to rename it so
it doesn't break.
Oops.
And we'll say it's a function
we're gonna compose it.
Compose.
And the first thing that happens in
this whole thing we take in cars and
we call last on cars.
All right, call last.
Then we call prop within stock and
then so last turns into reverse cars and
reverse cars goes in there so it might
as well just put this right there.
There we go.
So we're using currying.
So it goes the last curious
problem there you are.
And you'll see this pattern a lot.
If you see something like,
f of x and then you know, g on x and
then we have z z=h(y).
So each of these arguments
are just being kinda zigzagged and
you can just turn that into a composition.
You can also take
something like f of g of h.
And well, backwards but, f of g of h, and
that's equivalent to
the composition of f g and h.
So kind of unrolls this, this nesting,
which is nice name of first car.
So we're gonna use compose prop and head
to retrieve the name in the first car to
start with our compose as we do,
so we went the first car.
So I guess we'll use head to get
the first of the list of cars
because we're gonna pass in cars here.
Loosehead from there again,
just like the last please prop,
and I want to get the name.
Does the data coming in,
they all have a name.
So we'll go ahead and
just call name and does that work.
It works, ta da!
If I do last or whatever, I'll get
the wrong name, but it'll still work.
It's a different name, same idea.
See what's going on to,
let's go on to exercise three.
Here's the helper function average
to refactor the average dollar value
as a composition.
Okay?
This one's bizarre says leave it be but
I still want to play with it.
[LAUGH] Alright, so we're gonna
go with the average dollar value
says we're gonna grab Sita dollar value.
Well, I know this is just the prop
function we didn't really talk too
much about the prop function I
probably should have introduced that.
Let me just do that for completeness sake.
If I say prop dollar value
that is the same as a function that takes
some x and calls dollar value on it.
In fact, same things probably implemented
this way where we call x dollar value.
So these are all the same, right?
Let's go ahead and change that then.
So do dot prop dollar value.
And now we can start to see that
cars goes into this thing and
we have that kind of zigzag pattern
where this has got an output and
that output goes into this input.
So why don't we rewrite this
as a composition right below
I'll rename that because const is
the strongest thing in the world, right?
It throws an error if
I override the thing.
[LAUGH] So we do that or compose.
And we just have to call average.
It worked, it worked.
Hooray.
Is this the same answer you all got or
did you get a different answer?
I'm seeing heads nodding.
Their head nodding left or right actually.
It's a wrong nod, no I'm just kidding.
They're nodding up and
down for those online.
So then we finally go to exercise four.
Let's see here, so
this is our sanitization function.
I'll replace anything that's not a word
with underscore, SanitizeNames, okay?
And it says it wants us to write a
function using compose that returns a list
of lowercase and underscored names.
Which is this, but
it needs to be lower cased, interesting.
Okay, so we're gonna replace the things
but we also have to lowercase it.
So start by composing, start, and we're
going to take in all the, the cars, right?
So why don't we, and this is kind of a fun
thing to do, but we'll do it like this.
First we'll map underscore.
And then, we're gonna go ahead and
map(_.toLower).
I don't know if I gave you this function.
[LAUGH] So that's fine.
But it's in RandA and you could had
made it on so, come on, it's a built in.
[LAUGH]
Alright, so
we're not passing yet,
see what's happening here.
String replaces not a function.
>> You need the name.
>> You need the name [INAUDIBLE].
>> So wait, I need what?
>> Property.
>> Thank you.
So if we do .map, thank you prop.
Look at these maps, this is ridiculous.
We can do something
that we'll learn later.
Yeah, it works.
Thank you for your help.
So first of all, map all the names,
then we'll underscore all of them and
then we'll lowercase all of them.
Well it turns out this map kind of
distributes over the compose here,
we can factor it out to the outside and
get rid of all these
nested loops and
make it one composition on the inside.
So not points.
Oops, there you go.
So that's kinda neat, and
that follows from a law on factors
which we'll talk about after lunch, but
that's a, properties in action,
math in action, right there.
Bam-bam should I call this and so
that that does the trick there.
Any questions on this?
>> If we go back up to our, abstract map
out where we took the one map two, three.
>> Yes.
>> What is actually, like how is that
this is obviously RandA is doing
the combinatorics to make that logic work.
>> Well, yes.
>> So in sketch,
how is three maps being turned into one?
>> Yeah, I mean I can actually kind
of walk through what happens here and
see if that opens up the inner kind of
clears up what exactly is happening.
So they say this stuff isn't performing
and try to fuse three four loops.
>> [LAUGH]
>> Yeah, I need to do it this as two.
Okay, and I still, all right cool.
So, now if I make this one 2 and
that one 1 it still passes, right?
We still get that happy green
nice happy green [LAUGH].
So, what's happening with map,
I think map is defined like this.
Take some f and some x and
just calls x map (f).
Just delegates to the object.
So, this is a list that
we'll call map in the list.
And we know because we're gonna
map over this entire suite,
take these maps off, well,
I guess have to carry it.
We'll use our own here, get rid of theirs.
And what's gonna happen is we know
that as we loop through this,
we get an array of names.
And then we loop through it again, we get
a list of underscores [INAUDIBLE] again.
There's a property that states
if I have a composition,
map f map g, that's always equal to
mapping the composition of f and g.
And so f becomes just this entire
composition and x gets hit with all these
functions each time in one loop rather
than looping and looping and looping.
And there's these,
map is coming from the category theory of
mapping this category into that category.
And we can talk a little bit about that.
But because of the contract
the properties of map.
This will always hold if
you're writing functions.
If you're not writing functions,
anarchy [LAUGH], so there's that.
Thank you.
That was a fun thing to kind of discuss,
which we'll see a little bit later but
I'm not going to get too much this
because it's much more introductory.
I wanna get mired in the math just that
you know that it is there if you want it.